Add doc for exported values (#63)
LexiFi/dead_code_analyzer: docs/exported_values/EXPORTED_VALUES.md

        + [Multiple compilation units](#multiple-compilation-units)
        + [All Together](#all-together)
    + [Code constructs](#code-constructs)
        + [Function](#function)
        + [Module](#module)
        + [Functor](#functor)
        + [Module type](#module-type)
        + [Module signature](#module-signature)
        + [Include](#include)

# Exported Values

## Definitions

A **value** is the result of an expression. For the analyzer, we'll restrict
this definition to a _named_ value, i.e. a name bound to an expression.
In general, this is the `lhs` of `let lhs = ...` or `val lhs : ...`.

An **exported** value is one that is accessible outside its compilation unit.
I.e. a value that can be referenced in other `.ml` and/or `.mli` files than
the ones that declare it.

> [!NOTE]
> The _exported_ attribute is important here.
> The compiler already reports unused _unexported_ values (warning 32
> `unused-value-declaration`) and unused _local_
> values (warning 26 `unused-var`) [^unused-var-strict]. Because the compiler
> already reports these 2 categories of values, the `dead_code_analyzer`
> complements its work by focusing on the 3rd category.

> [^unused-var-strict]: The compiler also has the warning 27 `unused-var-strict`

Author: Warning 27 is used in the `Function` example. It might be worth a better introduction than a footnote. 

Moreover, the note above could be detailed in its own subsection, to explain how to access the list of existing compiler warnings, list the ones relevant to this section, their default (on/off) and how to enable them, and provide very short examples that trigger them.
So far, the warnings used in this section are the 26, 27, 32 and 67

  ```
  The value `answer` is explicitly referenced in `print_int answer`.
- A requirement for that value to exist.
  E.g.
  ```OCaml
  module M = struct
    let answer = 42
  end

  module M2 : sig val answer : int end = M
  ```
  There are 2 values here : `M.answer`, and `M2.answer`.
  Neither of them is explictly referenced. However, `M.answer` is used by
  requirement in `M2 : ... = M`. I.e. it needs to be provided by `M` to fulfill
  `M2`'s signature. Without it the compilation would fail with an error like :
  ```
  File "requirement.ml", line 4, characters 39-40:
  4 | module M2 : sig val answer : int end = M
                                             ^
  Error: Signature mismatch:
         Modules do not match:
           sig end
         is not included in
           sig val answer : int end
         The value answer is required but not provided
         File "requirement.ml", line 4, characters 16-32: Expected declaration
  ```

## Usage

Unused exported values are reported by default.
Their reports can be deactivated by using the `--nothing` or `-E nothing`
command line arguments.
They can be reactivated by using the `--all` or `-E all` command line arguments.

> For more detail on the command line arguments see [the more general Usage

Author: ```suggestion
For more details about the command line arguments see [the more general Usage
```

documentation](../USAGE.md).

> The report section title is `.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:`.

Author: Describing the whole section's aspect would be nice:

> ```
> > UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
> =========================
> filepath:line: value
> 
> Nothing else to report in this section
> --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
> ```
> The report line format is `filepath:line: value` with `filepath` the absolute path to the file (`.mli` if available, `.ml` otherwise) where `value` is declared, `line` the line index in `filepath` at which `value` is declared, and `value` the path of the value within its compilation unit (e.g. `M.x`).
> There can be any number of such lines.

> The report section title is `.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:`.

Author: ````suggestion
The report section looks like:
```
> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
filepath:line: value

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```
The report line format is `filepath:line: value` with `filepath` the absolute path to the file (`.mli` if available, `.ml` otherwise) where `value` is declared, `line` the line index in `filepath` at which `value` is declared, and `value` the path of the value within its compilation unit (e.g. `M.x`).
There can be any number of such lines.
````

The expected resolution for an unused exported value is to remove it from the
`.mli` if there is one, or the `.ml` otherwise.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Removing unused values from the codebase (reported by either the compiler or
> the analyzer) may trigger the detection of new unused values for both the
> compiler and the analyzer. Consequently, it is expected that a user might need
> to compile and analyze their code multiple times when cleaning up their
> codebase.

In order to provide actionable reports, the analyzer does not track the same
uses depending on whether a `.mli` exists or not :
- If a value is declared in a `.mli`, then only uses outside its compilation
unit are tracked (by default).
- If there is no `.mli`, then uses inside the compilation unit are also tracked.

With that same goal in mind, the analyzer does not report _transitively_ unused
exported values. I.e. if a value is only used by unused values, then it will
not be reported as unused. It would be reported unused only after all the code
using it has been removed.

> This is also the compiler's behavior for its warnings about unused values.

Author: A short example would be appreciated

> # Examples

Author: All of the code could be moved in the `examples/` directory and included in the test suite. This would ensure that if a result changes, we are quickly aware that the documentation needs to be updated too. It would also ensure that the documented behavior is actually tested.

> ## Hello world

Author: This section is quite long and could live in its own `.md` file

All of the following examples can be found in the [hello\_world](./hello_world)
directory.

The reference takes place in `/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world`, which
contains copies of the examples. Reported locations may differ depending on the
location of the source files.

### Single compilation unit without interface

This example illustrates a simple case of a compilation unit without `.mli` and
without any external use.

The reference file for this example is
[`hello_world_no_intf.ml`](./hello_world/hello_world_no_intf.ml).

> The compilation command to produce the `hello_world_no_intf.cmi` and

Author: ```suggestion
The compilation command to produce `hello_world_no_intf.cmi` and
```

`hello_world_no_intf.cmt` is :
```
ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml
```

The analysis command is :
```
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_no_intf.cmi hello_world_no_intf.cmt
```

#### First run

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world_no_intf.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"

let () =
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

> Compile and analyze :

Author: This is the first time we show the results of compiling and analyzing a file. Splitting the 2 actions (compile and analyze) would help readability. They can be grouped subsequent iterations.

```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml
File "hello_world_no_intf.ml", line 8, characters 6-19:
8 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_no_intf.cmi hello_world_no_intf.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Here we can see the warning 26 is triggered during the compilation. Hence, the

> _local_ value `goodbye_world` at line 8 can be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
The compiler reports a warning 26 on `goodbye_world`:
`Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.`
This tells us that the _local_ value is unused, and, thus, can be removed at the reported location:
`File "hello_world_no_intf.ml", line 8`
```

> The analyzer reports that there is no unused _exported_ value. The 3 exported

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer does not report any unused _exported_ value. The 3 exported
```

> values are `hello`, `goodbye` and `world`. They are all referenced internally.

Author: Quickly explain why these are the exported values.

Because there is no `hello_world_no_intf.mli`, the internal uses are accounted for.

#### Fixing the warning 26

Let's remove the unused `goodbye_world`.

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world_no_intf.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"

let () =
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_no_intf.cmi hello_world_no_intf.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world_no_intf.ml:3: goodbye

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

The compiler does not report any unused value.

> The analyzer, however, detects that `goodbye` declared at line 3 is now unused.

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer reports that `goodbye` declared at line 3 is unused :
`/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world_no_intf.ml:3: goodbye`
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Like we did with the warning 26, `goodbye` can be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
Like the warning 26 above, this report tells us that `goodbye` can be removed at the reported location.
```

#### Removing the unused `goodbye`

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world_no_intf.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let world = "World"

let () =
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_no_intf.cmi hello_world_no_intf.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Now, neither the compiler nor the analyzer report any unused value. Our work here is done.

### Single compilation unit with interface

This example illustrates a simple case of a compilation unit with `.mli` and
without any external use.

> This is the same as the previous example with an extra interface.

Author: ```suggestion
This example is the same as the previous example, with an explicit `.mli`.
Although an interface is provided, all the uses remain inside the same compilation unit.
```

The reference files for this example are

> [`hello_world.mli`](./hello_world/hello_world.mli) and

Author: To have a more direct parallel between this example and the previous, the compilation units could be renamed `hello_world_without_inf` and `hello_world_with_intf`

[`hello_world.ml`](./hello_world/hello_world.ml)

> The compilation command to produce the `hello_world.cmi` and `hello_world.cmt` is :

Author: ```suggestion
The compilation command to produce `hello_world.cmi` and `hello_world.cmt` is :
```

```
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world.cmi hello_world.cmt
```

#### First run

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world.mli *)
val hello : string
val goodbye : string
val world : string
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"

let () =
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world.ml
File "hello_world.ml", line 8, characters 6-19:
8 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world.cmi hello_world.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:2: hello
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:3: goodbye
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:4: world

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Like in the previous example, the warning 26 is triggered during the

> compilation. Hence, the _local_ value `goodbye_world` at line 8 can be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
The compiler reports the same warning 26 on `goodbye_world` as in the previous example.
```

The analyzer reports that there are 3 unused _exported_ value in
`hello_world.mli`: `hello` at line 2, `goodbye` line 3, and `world` line 4.

> These are the only exported values in the `hello_world` compilation unit because

Author: ```suggestion
These are the only exported values in the `Hello_world` compilation unit because
```

> they are the only one listed in the `.mli`. They are all used in

Author: ```suggestion
they are the only ones listed in the `.mli`. They are all used in
```

interface file available, only external uses are accounted for. Thus, they are
considered unused and can be dropped from the `.mli`

#### Removing the unused values

Let's remove the unused `goodbye_world` from `hello_world.ml`, reported unused
by the compiler, and the values in `hello_world.mli` reported by the analyzer.

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world.mli *)
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"

let () =
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```
Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world.ml
$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world.cmi hello_world.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Now, neither the compiler nor the analyzer report any unused value.

We learned from the previous example that the `goodbye` value is unused after
we remove `goodbye_world`. This is on the compiler to report it in this example
because it is an _unexported_ value here (while it was an _exported_ value in

> the previous example). This warning is actually off by default and can be

Author: ```suggestion
the previous example). The corresponding warning is actually off by default and can be
```

activated by passing the `-w +32` argument to the compiler :
```
$ ocamlopt -w +32 hello_world.ml
File "hello_world.ml", line 3, characters 4-11:
3 | let goodbye = "Goodbye"
        ^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value goodbye.
```
The `goodbye` value can be safely removed and neither the compiler nor the
analyzer will report unused values anymore. Our work here is done.

### Multiple compilation units

This example illustrates a simple case of a library used by a binary.

> This is the same as the previous example with an extra indirection.

Author: ```suggestion
This example is the same as the previous example, split in 2 separate compilation units.
All the exported values are now used externally.
```

The reference files for this example are
[`hello_world_lib.mli`](./hello_world/hello_world_lib.mli),
[`hello_world_lib.ml`](./hello_world/hello_world_lib.ml), and
[`hello_world_bin.ml`](./hello_world/hello_world_bin.ml)

> The compilation command to produce the the necessary `.cmi` and `.cmt` files is :

Author: ```suggestion
The compilation command to produce the necessary `.cmi` and `.cmt` files is :
```

```

> [!NOTE]
> It is left as an exercise to the reader to explore this example without
> `hello_world_lib.mli`.

#### First run

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world_lib.mli *)
val hello : string
val goodbye : string
val world : string
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world_lib.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world_bin.ml *)
let () =
  let open Hello_world_lib in
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml
File "hello_world_bin.ml", line 5, characters 6-19:
5 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_lib.cmi hello_world_lib.cmt hello_world_bin.cmi hello_world_bin.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Like in the previous example, the warning 26 is triggered during the

> compilation. Hence, the _local_ value `goodbye_world` at line 8 can be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
The compiler reports the same warning 26 on goodbye_world as in the previous example.
```

> The analyzer reports that there is no unused _exported_ value. The 3 exported

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer does not report any unused _exported_ value. The 3 exported
```

> `Hello_world_lib.hello`) without making any difference on the reports.

#### Fixing the warning 26

Let's remove the unused `goodbye_world`.

Code :
```OCaml
(* hello_world_lib.mli *)
val hello : string
val goodbye : string
val world : string
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world_lib.ml *)
let hello = "Hello"
let goodbye = "Goodbye"
let world = "World"
```
```OCaml
(* hello_world_bin.ml *)
let () =
  let open Hello_world_lib in
  let hello_world = hello ^ world in
  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_lib.cmi hello_world_lib.cmt hello_world_bin.cmi hello_world_bin.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world_lib.mli:3: goodbye

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

The compiler does not report any unused value.

The analyzer, however, detects that `goodbye` declared in `hello_world_lib.mli`
at line 3 is now unused.

> Like we did with the warning 26, `goodbye` can be removed.

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer reports `goodbye` as unused, as in the previous example.
```

  print_endline hello_world
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all hello_world_lib.cmi hello_world_lib.cmt hello_world_bin.cmi hello_world_bin.cmt
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Now, neither the compiler nor the analyzer report any unused value.

Like in the previous example, we need to pass `-w +32` to the compiler to
trigger the `unused-value-declaration` warning :
```
$ ocamlopt -bin-annot hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml
File "hello_world_lib.ml", line 3, characters 4-11:
3 | let goodbye = "Goodbye"
        ^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value goodbye.
```
The `goodbye` value can be safely removed and neither the compiler nor the
analyzer will report unused values anymore. Our work here is done.

### All Together

This example illustrates a simple case of a complete codebase with independent
and dependent components, and duplicate names.

> This is the grouping of all the previous [*Hello World*](#hello-world) examples.

Author: ```suggestion
This example is the grouping of all the previous [*Hello World*](#hello-world) examples.
```

Analyzing all the files at once reduces the number of iterations to reach a
satisfying codebase.

The reference files for this example are all those listed previously.

> The compilation command to produce the the necessary `.cmi` and `.cmt` files,

Author: ```suggestion
The compilation command to produce the necessary `.cmi` and `.cmt` files,
```

and the desired warnings is the combination of all the previous ones :
```
ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml hello_world.mli hello_world.ml hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml
```

> [!NOTE]
> For our usage, this has the same effect has running each of the previous
> compliation commands, with the extra `-w +32` argument, one after the other.
> The benefit is that all the warnings will be printed at once.

The analysis command is :
```
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
```

> [!TIP]

> > As we can see for the compilation command, there is a large number of files to

Author: ```suggestion
> As we can see in the compilation command, there is a large number of files to
```

> list. Instead of listing all the `.cmi` and `.cmt` files in the command line,
> the analyzer accepts directories as arguments and will analyze all the

> > relevant files it can find in them and in their subdirectories.

Author: ```suggestion
> relevant files it can find in them.
```

The code is not re-exposed at each iteration here. It is the same as in the previous examples.

#### First Run

Compile :
```
$ ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml hello_world.mli hello_world.ml hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml
File "hello_world_no_intf.ml", line 8, characters 6-19:
8 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.

File "hello_world.ml", line 8, characters 6-19:
8 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.

File "hello_world_bin.ml", line 5, characters 6-19:
5 |   let goodbye_world = goodbye ^ world in
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 26 [unused-var]: unused variable goodbye_world.
```

> Without any surprise, the compiler identifies the different warning 26 explored

Author: ```suggestion
Without any surprise, the compiler reports the warnings 26 explored
```

in the previous examples.
Let's fix them and **recompile**, before running the analyzer.

Analyze :
```
$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:2: hello
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:3: goodbye
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world.mli:4: world
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world_lib.mli:3: goodbye
/tmp/docs/exported_values/hello_world/hello_world_no_intf.ml:3: goodbye

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

> The analyzer correclty identifies the unused exported values it identified for

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer correctly reports the unused exported values it reported in
```

the previous examples, all in one run. Note that the reports are in the
lexicographical order.

> Unlike the compiler which listed its warnings in the order the files appeared in

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike the compiler which listed its warnings in the order of the files in
```

the command line, the analyzer always sorts its reports in this order.

#### Removing the unused exported values

Like we did, in the previous examples, we can remove the exported values at the
locations reported by the analyzer.

Compile :
```
$ ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml hello_world.mli hello_world.ml hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml
File "hello_world.ml", line 3, characters 4-11:
3 | let goodbye = "Goodbye"
        ^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value goodbye.

File "hello_world_lib.ml", line 3, characters 4-11:
3 | let goodbye = "Goodbye"
        ^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value goodbye.
```

> Once again, the finidings are the same as for the previous examples. After

Author: ```suggestion
Once again, the warnings are the same as for the previous examples. After
```

`goodbye_world` is removed and `goodbye` is unexported, the compiler warning 32

> indicates that it is unused.

Author: ```suggestion
indicates that `goodbye` is unused.
```

Let's fix the warnings.

Compile and analyze :
```
$ ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot hello_world_no_intf.ml hello_world.mli hello_world.ml hello_world_lib.mli hello_world_lib.ml hello_world_bin.ml

$ dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

Now, neither the compiler nor the analyzer report any unused value. Our work here is done.

## Code constructs

All of the following examples can be found in the
[code\_constructs](./code_constructs) directory.

The reference takes place in `/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs`, which
is a copy of `code_constructs`. Reported locations may differ depending on the
location of the source files.

> ### Function

Author: Each construct's section could live in its own `.md` file

> This example illustrates that exported functions are exported values.

Author: Remove this line at the beginning of each construct's section

The reference files for this example are in the
[function](./code_constructs/function) directory.

The compilation command is :
```
make -C function build
```

The analysis command is :
```
make -C function analyze
```

The compile + analyze command is :
```
make -C function
```

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* function_lib.mli *)

val memoize : f:('a -> 'b) -> 'a -> 'b

val heavy_computation : 'a -> 'a

val unused : 'a -> 'a

val do_nothing : 'a -> unit
```
```OCaml
(* function_lib.ml *)

let memoize ~f =
  let mem = Hashtbl.create 8 in
  function x ->
  match Hashtbl.find_opt mem x with
  | Some y -> y
  | None ->
    let y = f x in
    Hashtbl.add mem x y;
    y

let heavy_computation x = x

let unused x = x

let do_nothing x = ()
```
```OCaml
(* function_bin.ml *)

let () =
  let my_memoized = Function_lib.(memoize ~f:heavy_computation) in
  Function_lib.do_nothing ();
  assert (my_memoized 42 = my_memoized 42)
```

Function values are analyzed like any other value. Hence, passing them as

> argument to a function or applying them (even partially) count as uses just like

Author: ```suggestion
arguments to a function or applying them (even partially) count as uses just like
```

any other explicit reference. Therefore, `Function_lib`'s `heavy_computation`,

> `memoize`, and `do_nothing` are used in `Function_bin`. This leaves

Author: ```suggestion
any other explicit reference. Therefore, `Function_lib`'s `memoize`,
`heavy_computation`, and `do_nothing` are used in `Function_bin`. This leaves
```

`Function_lib.unused` as the only unused exported value.

> Compile and analyze :

Author: Split compilation and analysis for readability. The warning 27 is introduced for the first time and has a dedicated paragraph below

```
$ make -C function
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/function'
ocamlopt -w +27+32 -bin-annot function_lib.mli function_lib.ml function_bin.ml
File "function_lib.ml", line 17, characters 15-16:
17 | let do_nothing x = ()
                    ^
Warning 27 [unused-var-strict]: unused variable x.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/function/function_lib.mli:7: unused

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/function'
```

The compiler reports that `do_nothing`'s parameter `x` is unused via a
warning 27. This can be easily fixed by prefixing the name with an underscore
`_` or even replacing the name by an underscore. Depending on the context, other
solutions may be considered, such as removing the parameter, or fixing the
argument's type to `unit`.

> > [!NOTE]

Author: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
```

> The warning 27 is off by default. It is enabled by passing the `-w +27`
> argument to the compiler

As expected, the only unused exported value reported by the analyzer is

> `unused` in `function_lib.mli`.

Author: ```suggestion
As expected, the analyzer only reports `unused`, declared in `function_lib.mli`.
```

val do_nothing : unit -> unit
```
```OCaml
(* function_lib.ml *)

let memoize ~f =
  let mem = Hashtbl.create 8 in
  function x ->
  match Hashtbl.find_opt mem x with
  | Some y -> y
  | None ->
    let y = f x in
    Hashtbl.add mem x y;
    y

let heavy_computation x = x

let unused x = x

let do_nothing () = ()
```
```OCaml
(* function_bin.ml *)

let () =
  let my_memoized = Function_lib.(memoize ~f:heavy_computation) in
  Function_lib.do_nothing ();
  assert (my_memoized 42 = my_memoized 42)
```

Compile and analyze :
```
$ make -C function
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/function'
ocamlopt -w +27+32 -bin-annot function_lib.mli function_lib.ml function_bin.ml
File "function_lib.ml", line 15, characters 4-10:
15 | let unused x = x
         ^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value unused.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/function'
```

> Now that `unused` is unexported, the compiler can report it as unused via the

Author: ```suggestion
Now that `unused` is unexported, the compiler reports it as unused via the
```

> warning 32, and the analyzer does not report anaything. Removing that value

Author: ```suggestion
warning 32, and the analyzer does not report anything. Removing that value
```

fixes all the warnings. Our work here is done.

### Module

This example illustrates a simple case of exported values in submodules.

The reference files for this example are in the
[module](./code_constructs/module) directory.

The compilation command is :
```
make -C module build
```

The analysis command is :
```
make -C module analyze
```

The compile + analyze command is :
```
make -C module
```

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* module_lib.mli *)
module M : sig
  type t
  val externally_used : t
  val internally_used : t
  val unused : t
end
```
```OCaml
(* module_lib.ml *)
module M = struct
  type t = unit
  let externally_used = ()
  let internally_used = ()
  let unused = ()
  let unused_unexported = ()
end

let () = M.internally_used
```
```OCaml
(* module_bin.ml *)
let () =
  ignore Module_lib.M.externally_used
```

Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

> Here, all the values of `Module_lib.M` are exported except for

Author: ```suggestion
Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

All the values of `Module_lib.M` are exported except for
```

anywhere, `internally_used` is only referenced within its compilation unit
(`Module_lib`), and `externally_used` is only referenced outside of it.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Using `internally_used` inside of `M` rather than outside would provide the
> same results. The only scope of interest is the compilation unit.

Compile and analyze :
```
$ make -C module
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/module'
ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot module_lib.mli module_lib.ml module_bin.ml
File "module_lib.ml", line 7, characters 6-23:
7 |   let unused_unexported = ()
          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value unused_unexported.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/module/module_lib.mli:5: M.internally_used
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/module/module_lib.mli:6: M.unused

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/module'
```

> The compiler detects that `unused_unexported` is unused.

Author: ```suggestion
The compiler reports that `unused_unexported` is unused.
```

The analyzer reports `M.internally_used` and `M.unused` as unused. Notice how
it did not only report the name of the value but its full path within its
compilation unit.

> [!NOTE]

> > `M.internally_used` is only used withing its compialtion unit. Because its is

Author: ```suggestion
> `M.internally_used` is only used within its compilation unit. Because it is
```

File "module_lib.ml", line 6, characters 6-12:
6 |   let unused = ()
          ^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value unused.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/module'
```

The compiler reports `unused` as unused and the analyzer does not report anything. Removing that value fixes all the warnings. Our work here is done.

### Functor

This example illustrates a simple case of exported values in functors.

The reference files for this example are in the
[functor](./code_constructs/functor) directory.

The compilation command is :
```
make -C functor build
```

The analysis command is :
```
make -C functor analyze
```

The compile + analyze command is :
```
make -C functor
```

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* functor_lib.mli *)
type t

module F (P : sig
  val used_required : t
  val unused_required : t
end) : sig
  val externally_used : t
  val internally_used : t
  val unused : t
end

> module InternalParam : sig

Author: Use snake case for consistency. This is the case for the module type and module sig examples, as well as the compilation units

  let unused_required = ()
end

module ExternalParam = struct
  let used_required = ()
  let unused_required = ()
end

module InternalApp = F(InternalParam)
```
```OCaml
(* functor_bin.ml *)
open Functor_lib

module ExternalApp = F(ExternalParam)

let () =
  ignore InternalApp.externally_used;
  ignore ExternalApp.externally_used
```

Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

The `Functor_lib` compilation unit exports 1 functor and 3 modules :
- `F` takes a module containing the values `used_required` and `unused_required`,
  and returns a module with 3 values whose names are explicit.
- `InternalParam` and `ExternalParam` fit the signature of `F`'s parameter `P`.
  The first one is used for a functor application inside `Functor_lib`.
  The second one is used for a functor application outside of it.
- `InternalApp` fits the signature of the result of `F`, and is impemented as
  the result of applying `F` inside its compilation unit.

The `Functor_bin` compilation unit exports 1 module : `ExternalApp`, which is
the result of applying `Functor_lib.F` outside its compilation unit.

Among all the exported values, the only explicit references accounted for are

> those of `InternalApp.externally_used` and `External_app.externally_used` in

Author: ```suggestion
Among all the exported values, the only explicit references accounted for are
`InternalApp.externally_used` and `External_app.externally_used` in
```

`Functor_bin`.

Additionally, some values are used by requirement. Because `InternalParam` and
`ExternalParam` are passed as arguments to `F`, their values `used_required` and
`unused_required` are used by requirement to fulfill the signature of `F`'s
parameter `P`.

> With those observations in mind, let's see what the compiler and the anlyzer

Author: ```suggestion
With those observations in mind, let's see what the compiler and the analyzer
```

           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value unused_unexported.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:9: F.internally_used
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:10: F.unused
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:14: InternalParam.used_required
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:15: InternalParam.unused_required
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:25: InternalApp.internally_used
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor/functor_lib.mli:26: InternalApp.unused

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/functor'
```

The compiler tells us that `unused_required` is unused in the implementation of
`F`. It also reports `unexported_unused` in `F` like it did in the
[module example](#module) for regular modules. These 2 values can be removed at

> the indicated locations.

Author: ```suggestion
> The compiler reports 2 unused values, that can be removed at the reported locations : 
> - `unused_required`, defined by `P`, the parameter of `F`;
> - `unexported_unused`, defined by `F`, like it did in the [module](#module) example.
```

> The analyzer reports 6 unused exported values, all in the `functor_lib.mli` :

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer reports 6 unused exported values, all in `functor_lib.mli` :
```

2 in `F`, 2 in `InternalParam`, and 2 in `InternalApp`. Let's observe them by
module (in reverse order) :

> - The reports for `InternalApp` are identical to the [module example](#module).

Author: ```suggestion
- The reports for `InternalApp` are identical to the [module](#module) example.
```

Although, `InternalApp` is the result of applying `F`, it has an explicit

> signature. I.e. it exposes its own values and the link between them and those of

Author: ```suggestion
Although, `InternalApp` is implemented as the result of applying `F` in `functor_lib.ml`,
its signature is independent of `F` in `functor_lib.mli`.
I.e. it exposes its own values and the link between them and those of
```

`F` is absent from the signature. Consequently, they are tracked independently.

- As we observed before runnning the analyzer, the values in `InternalParam` are
used by requirement. However, this use is internal to `Functor_lib`, and there
is an interface available : `functor_lib.mli`. Consequently, the internal uses
are ignored, and `InternalParam`'s values become unused.

> [!NOTE]
> The kind of use (explicit reference, or by requirement) has no influence on

> > the tracking mode (external only, or internal + external).

Author: I am not a fan of "tracking mode". Maybe this can be reformulated or the whole note can be discarded.

- `F` is a functor but is tracked like a regular module. The reported values are
those of its result module. Reporting on those may feel like duplicates, but,
as explained for the reports of `InternalApp`, the values of the result
module are declared independently of those of `InternalApp`, hence they are
tracked and reported independently.

All the values reported by the analyzer can be safely removed.

Before moving on, there is another observation that we can make :
the values `unused` and `internally_used` of `ExternalApp` are not reported.
Because they are reported for `InternalApp` and `F`, it would be natural to

> expect them in the reports for `ExternalApp` as well. In reality, they are not

Author: ```suggestion
Because they are reported for `InternalApp` and `F`, one could
expect them to be reported for `ExternalApp` as well. In reality, they are not
```

tracked individually for `ExternalApp` because it does not expose them
explicitly. Unlike `InternalApp` which has an explicit module signature,
`ExternalApp` does not. Consequently, its values are directly linked to those of

> `F`. This situation will be explored in the

Author: ```suggestion
`F`. This situation is explored in the
```

[module signature](#module-signature) example.

> [!TIP]

> > If we activated the compiler warning 67 `unused-functor-parameter`(by

Author: ```suggestion
> If we activated the compiler warning 67 `unused-functor-parameter` (by
```

> passing the argument `-w +67`), then the compiler would have reported :
> ```
> File "functor_lib.mli", line 4, characters 10-11:
> 4 | module F (P : sig
>               ^
> Warning 67 [unused-functor-parameter]: unused functor parameter P.
> ```
> This can be fixed by either replacing `P` with `_`, or by rewriting the
> declaration of `F` as :
> ```OCaml
> module F : sig
>     val used_required : t
>     val unused_required : t
>   end
>   -> sig
>     val externally_used : t
>     val internally_used : t
>     val unused : t
>   end
> ```

#### Removing the unused values

In addition to removing everything that was reported by the compiler and the
analyzer, we also commented out `P.used_required` and `InternalParam` in
`functor_lib.mli`. It is up to the user to decide whether they would like to
keep them or remove them from their specifications. Neither would be reported
by the compiler or the analyzer.

> [!NOTE]

> > Functors are covariant in their parameters. I.e. it is allowed to give a

Author: ```suggestion
> It is allowed to give a
```

> larger module as argument than what the parameter specifies.
> Similarly it is allowed to declare the parameter larger in the interface than
> it is in the implementation. Consequently, the compiler would not complain if

> > `P` would expect `unused_required` in the `.mli` but not in the `.ml`.

Author: ```suggestion
> `P` expected `unused_required` in the `.mli` but not in the `.ml`.
```

> the analyzer currently ignores values exported by module types
> (see [issue #50](https://github.com/LexiFi/dead_code_analyzer/issues/50)).

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* modtyp_lib.mli *)
module type T = sig
  type t
  val externally_used : t
  val internally_used : t
  val unused : t
end

module M_reuse : T

module M_constr : T with type t = unit

module M_subst : T with type t := unit

module M_redef : sig
  type t
  val externally_used : t
  val internally_used : t
  val unused : t
end
```
```OCaml
(* modtyp_lib.ml *)
module type T = sig
  type t
  val externally_used : t
  val internally_used : t
  val unused : t
end

module M = struct
  type t = unit
  let externally_used = ()
  let internally_used = ()
  let unused = ()
  let unused_unexported = ()
end

let () = M.internally_used

module M_reuse = M

module M_constr = M

module M_subst = M

module M_redef = M
```
```OCaml
(* modtyp_bin.ml *)
let () =
  ignore Modtyp_lib.M_reuse.externally_used;
  ignore Modtyp_lib.M_constr.externally_used;
  ignore Modtyp_lib.M_subst.externally_used;
  ignore Modtyp_lib.M_redef.externally_used
```

Once again, let's look at the code before diving into the compilation and

> analysis. Here the `Modtyp_lib` exports 1 module type `T` and 4 modules :

Author: ```suggestion
Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

The `Modtyp_lib` exports 1 module type `T` and 4 modules :
```

`M_reuse`, `M_constr`, `M_subst`, and `M_redef`. Of these 4 modules, the first
3 have `T` as signature (with minor twists), while the last one has its own
explicit signature, which is a copy of `T`. In this way, `M_redef` is equivalent

> to the [module](#module) example's `Module_lib.M` module : it exposes exactly

Author: ```suggestion
to `Module_lib.M` in the [module](#module) example : it exposes exactly
```

the same information.
Each of the modules exposed by `Modtyp_lib` are used exactly in the same way :
their `externally_used` values are explicitly referenced in `Modtyp_bin`.

One could naturally expect that all the exported values are reported
except for the `externally_used`. However, reporting e.g. `M_subst.internally_used`

> as unused would not be really actionable. In reality, this value is explicitly

Author: ```suggestion
as unused would not be immediately actionable. In reality, this value is explicitly
```

declared by `T`.
Fixing an unused value reported in a module using a module type as signature
would require either removing the value from the module type (if possible),
or explicilty describing the signature of the module, effectively losing the
benefits of using the module type. Thus, reporting unused values for the module
itself would be counterproductive.

> An actionable report would be that of the value in the module type itself,

Author: ```suggestion
An actionable report would be of the value in the module type itself,
```

if it is unused by all the modules of that module type (as it is the case here

> for `T.unused`). Currenyl, and as described in the introduction of this example,

Author: ```suggestion
for `T.unused`). Currently, and as described in the introduction of this example,
```

> the values exported by module types are ignored by the analyzeri, and,

Author: ```suggestion
the values exported by module types are ignored by the analyzer, and,
```

consequently, are not reported.

Now that we have explained what the expected behavior of the analyzer should be,
let's look at its results on the code above.

Compile and analyze :
```
$ make -C modtyp
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modtyp'
ocamlopt -w +32 -bin-annot modtyp_lib.mli modtyp_lib.ml modtyp_bin.ml
File "modtyp_lib.ml", line 14, characters 6-23:
14 |   let unused_unexported = ()
           ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Warning 32 [unused-value-declaration]: unused value unused_unexported.
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modtyp/modtyp_lib.mli:18: M_redef.internally_used
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modtyp/modtyp_lib.mli:19: M_redef.unused

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modtyp'
```

> As in the module example, the compiler detects that `unused_unexported` is unused.

Author: ```suggestion
As in the module example, the compiler reports that `unused_unexported` is unused.
```

As in the module example, the analyzer reports `M_redef.internally_used` and
`M_redef.unused` as unused exported values.

> All the reports are similar to those of the [module example](#module).

Author: ```suggestion
All the reports are similar to those of the [module](#module) example.
```

> The exploration iand resolution of that example can be applied here identically.

Author: ```suggestion
Its exploration and resolution can be applied.
```

### Module Signature

This example illustrates a simple case of exported values in module signatures.

The reference files for this example are in the
[modsig](./code_constructs/modsig) directory.

The compilation command is :
```
make -C modsig build
```

The analysis command is :
```
make -C modsig analyze
```

The compile + analyze command is :
```
make -C modsig
```

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* modsig_lib.ml *)
module Original = struct
  let used_directly = ()
  let used_indirectly = ()
  let used_by_requirement = ()
  let unused = ()
end

module Alias_without_sig = Original

module Alias_with_sig : sig
  val used_by_requirement : unit
end = Original
```
```OCaml
(* modsig_bin.ml *)
let () =
  let open Modsig_lib in
  Original.used_directly;
  Alias_without_sig.used_indirectly
```

Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

The `Modsig_lib` compilation unit does not have a `.mli`, so all the internal
uses are accounted for. It exposes 3 modules : `Original`, `Alias_without_sig`,
and `Alias_with_sig`. Only the first module actually defines values. The second
one is an trivial alias, and the third is an alias with an explicit signature.

> Because the 2 latter modules are aliases for the `Original` module, one could

Author: ```suggestion
Because the 2 latter modules are aliases of the `Original` module, one could
```

> expect that the values exposed by them are unified with the ones in `Original`.

Author: ```suggestion
expect that the values they expose are unified with the ones of `Original`.
```

This would imply that only the values in `Original` could be reported as unused.
This reasoning is partially true.

> As explained in the [module type example](#module-type), a report on a value in

Author: ```suggestion
As explained in the [module type](#module-type) example, reporting a value in
```

`Alias_without_sig` would not be trivially solved, but require removing the
value from `Original` itself if possible or add an explicit signature to
unexport the unused value. Thus, it is the case for `Alias_without_sig` that
its values are unified with those of `Original`, and, consequently, that they

> cannot be reported as unused. Only the values in `Original` can be reported in this case.

Author: ```suggestion
`Alias_without_sig` would not be trivially solved. Thus,
its values are unified with those of `Original`, and, consequently, they
cannot be reported by the analyzer. Only the values in `Original` can be reported in this case.
```

> However, `Alias_with_sig` has an explicit signature, which means 2 things:

Author: ```suggestion

However, `Alias_with_sig` has an explicit signature, which means 2 things:
```

1. it controls what it exports, thus a reporting values in that module is
   trivially actionable by removing the reported values from the signature
2. it has requirements, thus all the values in `Original` that are expected in
   the signature of `Alias_with_sig` are considered used.

Now that we have explained the nuances introduced by the existence of an
explicit module signature, let's look at the results.

Compile and analyze:
```
$ make -C modsig
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig'
ocamlopt -bin-annot modsig_lib.ml modsig_bin.ml
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig/modsig_lib.ml:6: Original.unused
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig/modsig_lib.ml:12: Alias_with_sig.used_by_requirement

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig'
```

The compiler does not report any unused value.

> The analyzer detects that `Original.unused` and

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer reports that `Original.unused` and
```

module's strucutre because it does not have an explicit signature, and
`Alias_with_sig.used_by_requirement` is removed from the module's signature.

Code:
```OCaml
(* modsig_lib.ml *)
module Original = struct
  let used_directly = ()
  let used_indirectly = ()
  let used_by_requirement = ()
end

module Alias_without_sig = Original

module Alias_with_sig : sig end = Original
```
```OCaml
(* modsig_bin.ml *)
let () =
  let open Modsig_lib in
  Original.used_directly;
  Alias_without_sig.used_indirectly
```

Compile and analyze:
```
$ make -C modsig
make: Entering directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig'
ocamlopt -bin-annot modsig_lib.ml modsig_bin.ml
dead_code_analyzer --nothing -E all .
Scanning files...
 [DONE]

.> UNUSED EXPORTED VALUES:
=========================
/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig/modsig_lib.ml:5: Original.used_by_requirement

Nothing else to report in this section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

make: Leaving directory '/tmp/docs/exported_values/code_constructs/modsig'
```

The compiler does not report any unused value.

> The analyzer now detects that `Original.used_by_requirement` is unused. Indeed,

Author: ```suggestion
The analyzer reports `Original.used_by_requirement` as unused. Indeed,
```

values anymore. Our work here is done.

### Include

The reference files for this example are in the
[include](./code_constructs/include) directory.

The compilation command is :
```
make -C include build
```

The analysis command is :
```
make -C include analyze
```

The compile + analyze command is :
```
make -C include
```

#### First run

Code:
```OCaml
(* include_lib.ml *)
module Original = struct
  let used_directly = ()
  let used_indirectly = ()
  let unused = ()
end

module Reexport = struct
  include Original
end

module Redefine = struct
  include Original
  let used_directly = ()
  let unused = ()
end
```
```OCaml
(* include_bin.ml *)
let () =
  let open Include_lib in
  ignore Original.used_directly;
  ignore Reexport.used_indirectly;
  ignore Redefine.used_directly;
```

Before looking at the analysis results, let's look at the code.

The `Include_lib` compilation unit does not have a `.mli`, so all the internal
uses are accounted for. It exposes 3 modules : `Original`, `Reexport`, and
`Redefine`. The 1st one defines all its values, the 2nd only includes the 1st
one, and the 3rd one includes the 1st and redefines 2 values : `used_directly`,
and `unused`.

> By the explanation in the [module signature](#module-signature) and

Author: ```suggestion
uses are accounted for. It exposes 3 modules :
- `Original`, which explicitly defines all its values;
- `Reexport`, which only includes `Original`;
- `Redefine`, which includes `Original` and redefines 2 values : `used_directly`, and `unused`.

By the explanation in the [module signature](#module-signature) and
```

[module type](#module-type) examples, although there are 9 exported values
(`used_directly`, `used_indirectly`, and `unused` for each module), only 5 are
expected to be tracked by the analyzer : those in `Original` and the 2 redefined

> in `Redefine`. These are the only values a developer can trivially removeif

Author: ```suggestion
in `Redefine`. These are the only values a developer can trivially remove if
```

they are reported unused.

> Thus, the only values used are `Original.used_directly`,

Author: ```suggestion

Thus, the only values used are `Original.used_directly`,
```

`Original.used_indirectly` (by an explicit reference to
`Reexport.used_indirectly`), and `Redefine.used_directly`. This means that the
unused exported values tracked by the analyzer are `Original.unused` and
`Redefine.unused`.

> Let's look at the actual results.

Author: ```suggestion
```
